The following Jupyter notebook was created for the master thesis "Follow your source: Regionalized Biodiversity LCA of 68 New Swedish Buildings". The notebook is largely based on the notebook from the forked repository by Nicolas Francart, developed for the project "Industry standard for the biodiversity impact of construction considering the whole supply chain".
The purpose was to evaluate how current biodiversity LCA methods relevant for the Swedish construction sector can support industry actors in assessing the biodiversity impacts linked to buildings and their construction materials. I considered ReCiPe2016, Impact World +, LC-Impact and Scherer et al. (2023), recommended by GLAM (Global Guidance for Life Cycle Impact Assessment Indicators and Methods) for LULUC impacts on biodiversity. For the impact of land use, Impact World+ , LC-Impact and Scherer et al. enable a geographically specific assessment, considering both the type of land use and its location. It was not possible to directly obtain such geographically specific inventories via ecoinvent, so this code was used to derive such inventories and map them with Impact World +, LC-Impact and Scherer et al. ReCiPe2016 does not enable regionalization and impacts according to this method were calculated without this step. The code is open-source, licensed under the GNU GPL v3.
- Extracting geographically specific LCI from ecoinvent with Brightway2 (largely based on preexisting code shared by Chris Mutel on Stackexchange).
- Automating the process to run on an entire folder.
- Mapping the extracted inventories with appropriate land occupation and transformation characterization factors from Impact World +, LC-Impact and Scherer et al.
- Calculating the resulting land-use-related impact on biodiversity (non land-use-related impacts were calculated separately) for all included methods.
- For the purpose of a sensitivity analysis, modifying the geospecific LCIs to change the location of certain activities or the type of forestry.
